A directory for exploratory examples of what Boole might look like

Currently, there are two approaches to verifying the correctness of the verification conditions (VCs) generated by a Boole program:
1. Using Strata's default pipeline of translating VCs into SMT-LIB and calling an SMT solver on that (this currently supports Z3 and cvc5).
2. Using an alternative pipeline that translates VCs into an SMT-IR format, which is then lifted into Lean propositions. You can then invoke Lean's tactics to prove these propositions.

Below is a simple example of the standard Boole syntax, along with instructions on how to verify it using both approaches.

```lean4
-- This imports the necessary Strata modules for working with Boole programs and verification.
import Strata.MetaVerifier

open Strata

def loopSimple : Strata.Program :=
#strata
program Boole; // Specify that this is a Boole program.

procedure loopSimple (n: int) returns (r: int)
spec {
  requires (n >= 0);
}
{
  var sum : int;
  var i : int;

  sum := 0;
  i := 0;
  while(i < n)
    invariant (i <= n && ((i * (i-1)) div 2 == sum));
  {
    sum := sum + i;
    i := i + 1;
  }
  assert [sum_assert]: ((n * (n-1)) div 2 == sum);
  assert [neg_cond]: (i == n);
  r := sum;
};
#end

-- Approach 1: Using an SMT solver to verify the VCs.
#eval Strata.Boole.verify "cvc5" loopSimple

-- Approach 2: Using Lean tactics to verify the VCs.
theorem loopSimple_smtVCsCorrect : Strata.SMT.smtVCsCorrect loopSimple := by
  gen_smt_vcs
  all_goals (try grind)
```

In the second approach, the `gen_smt_vcs` tactic generates the SMT-IR VCs from the Boole program and lifts them up to Lean goals. Each goals corresponds to a VC (e.g., precondition, postcondition, loop invariant) and is assigned the same label as in the Boole program (e.g., `sum_assert`, `neg_cond`). The `all_goals (try grind)` line attempts to prove all the generated goals using Lean's built-in `grind` tactic. You may need to adjust the tactics used depending on the complexity of the VCs generated. Once the theorem is successfully proved, it confirms that all VCs generated from the Boole program are correct.
